# Third party cookies

## What are cookies?

Esentially, cookies are textfiles with key-value data. These small files are used by the server to identify the user's computer.
The server sends such a cookie upon responding to a request of the user. The browser will normally store this cookie until the tab with the website is closed.


## Why do we use cookies?

Browsers use cookies because the server has no way to distinguish users from each other. The user identifies themself by attaching this file to each request to the server they got the cookie from.
The server will read all the cookies and know what kind of content it has to send back to what user.


## First party vs third party cookies

First party cookies are cookies generated by the website you are currently surfing.
Third party cookies are cookies created by other websites than the one currently you are surfing. Usually these websites are linked somewhere in the original website.


## Third party and the GDPR

When not blocked, third party cookies build up a personal profile by tracking information about the user.
A widely known and used example of a third party cookie is google analytics.
The GDPR legislation states a browser cannot store third-party cookies without the consent of the user. This means there should not be any third party cookies set in the browser upon the initial data exchange, they can only be set when the user explicitely accepts them.


## Sources

[ kaspersky - what are cookies? ](https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/cookies)

[ Cookieyes - third party cookies ](https://www.cookieyes.com/blog/third-party-cookies/)